settings/claude/base.md, before:

# Claude Core Preferences for Jacob Hurlburt

## Quick Start

You are interacting with Jacob Hurlburt, Staff Data Engineer at Kin Insurance. This file contains core preferences shared across all Claude interfaces.

## Modern CLI Tools (Enforced by PreToolUse Hook)

YOU MUST use modern CLI tools for these operations. Using legacy tools will cause your commands to be blocked.

### Text and Code Search

**FORBIDDEN:** `grep`, `egrep`, `fgrep` - NEVER use these commands

**REQUIRED:**

- **Text search:** `rg "pattern" path/` (ripgrep via Bash tool)
- **Code structure:** `ast-grep --pattern 'structural pattern'` (via Bash tool)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Finding text in files
rg "TODO" src/
rg -i "error" logs/  # case insensitive
rg "class.*Test" --type py  # with file type filter

# Finding code structures
ast-grep --pattern 'class $NAME { $$$ }'  # find class definitions
ast-grep --pattern 'def $FUNC($$$):' --lang python  # find functions
ast-grep --pattern 'import { $$$ } from "$MOD"'  # find imports
```

### File Finding

**FORBIDDEN:** `find` command - NEVER use this command

**REQUIRED:** `fd` (via Bash tool)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Find by name
fd filename
fd "test.*\.py$"  # regex pattern

# Find by extension
fd -e py
fd -e js -e ts  # multiple extensions

# Find in specific directory
fd pattern directory/

# List all files in directory
fd . directory/
```

### Text Processing

**FORBIDDEN:** `sed`, `awk` for text processing

**REQUIRED:**

- **JSON:** `jq` (via Bash tool)
- **YAML/XML:** `yq` (via Bash tool)
- **Text filtering:** `rg` (via Bash tool)

## Pre-commit Hooks (Enforced by Git Workflow)

YOU MUST NEVER bypass pre-commit hooks. No exceptions.

**Forbidden commands - YOU MUST NOT use:**

- `git commit --no-verify`
- `git commit -n`
- `SKIP=<hook> git commit`
- `pre-commit uninstall`
- Any flag, environment variable, or workaround that skips hooks

**When hooks fail:**

1. Read the error output
2. Fix the underlying issue
3. Stage the fixes and any changes the linters/formatters made
4. Commit again (hooks will re-run automatically)

## Python Tooling (Project-Aware)

YOU MUST use the project's package manager for Python tools. Running global `pytest`, `mypy`, or `ruff` in a managed project = broken imports, missing dependencies, wrong versions. Every time.

**Detection signals:**

- `uv.lock` or `[tool.uv]` in pyproject.toml → use `uv run`
- `pixi.toml` or `pixi.lock` → use `pixi run`

**FORBIDDEN in uv/pixi projects:**

- `pytest` (global)
- `mypy` (global)
- `ruff` (global)
- Any Python tool invoked without the project's runner

**REQUIRED:**

```bash
# uv projects
uv run pytest tests/
uv run mypy src/
uv run ruff check .

# pixi projects
pixi run pytest tests/
pixi run mypy src/
pixi run ruff check .
```

**No exceptions.** "It worked with global pytest" means you got lucky—the environment matched by accident. Use the project's tooling.

### Temporary Dependencies (Ultra-Fast Ad-Hoc Usage)

When you need a library for one-off scripts, quick experiments, or CLI tools (even outside any project), use ephemeral dependencies. **This is VASTLY faster and cleaner than pip install.**

**Why this matters:**

- No polluting any environment
- No manual cleanup needed
- Instant isolated execution
- No "did I install this globally?" confusion

**REQUIRED:**

```bash
# For Python packages (PyPI) - use uv (default choice)
uv run --with requests python script.py
uv run --with pandas --with matplotlib analysis.py
uv run --with ruff ruff check .  # one-off tool usage

# For conda packages or non-Python dependencies - use pixi
pixi exec -s gcc python script.py  # need a C compiler
pixi exec -s gdal python geo_script.py  # conda-only package
pixi exec -s jupyterlab jupyter lab  # quick Jupyter session
```

**Common use cases:**

- Quick data analysis with pandas/polars → `uv run --with`
- One-off API calls with requests/httpx → `uv run --with`
- Trying a formatter/linter → `uv run --with`
- Need conda-only packages (GDAL, scientific libs) → `pixi exec -s`
- Need non-Python tools (compilers, system tools) → `pixi exec -s`

**Never use `pip install` for these.** Both `uv` and `pixi` are global CLI tools that handle downloading, caching, isolation, and cleanup automatically. It's literally designed for this exact scenario.

## Databricks Access

We have direct access to Databricks data. Asking Jacob for schemas when we can query them ourselves wastes both our time. Guessing at table structures when we can explore them directly leads to broken queries.

### CLI Operations (All Workspaces)

The Databricks CLI works on any workspace via profiles:

```bash
databricks workspace list /Users --profile PROD
databricks clusters list --profile DEV
databricks jobs list --profile SANDBOX
databricks catalogs list --profile ADHOC-ANALYSIS
databricks jobs submit --json '...' --profile DEV
```

Upload notebooks, trigger jobs, check run status. Auth is handled automatically.

### Databricks MCP Server (Preferred)

Use the `databricks-dbsql` MCP tools for SQL queries. This is the default choice for data exploration.

### Databricks Connect (Rare - When SQL Truly Won't Work)

Use databricks-connect only for operations that **cannot** be expressed in SQL:

- Custom Python UDFs
- MLlib / machine learning pipelines
- Iterative algorithms requiring programmatic logic
- Integration with Python libraries (pandas UDFs, numpy)

**If you can write it as a SQL query, use the MCP server instead.**

**Boundaries:**

- **DEV workspace only** — Queries against PROD, SANDBOX, ADHOC-ANALYSIS will fail
- **Read-only** — Write operations are blocked

**Invocation:**

Write your script to `/tmp/spark_query.py` first, then run:

```bash
DATABRICKS_HOST="https://dbc-2ded3f86-d900.cloud.databricks.com" \
DATABRICKS_TOKEN=$(databricks auth token --profile DEV | jq -r '.access_token') \
uvx --from 'databricks-connect==17.2.*' python /tmp/spark_query.py
```

Do NOT add `--with pyspark`—databricks-connect bundles its own pyspark-connect and they conflict.

**Performance:** Exploration without `.limit()` or aggregations = slow transfers. We're exploring, not exporting.

**Version:** 17.2.x required—later versions don't support serverless yet.

## Git Workflow

- **Conventional commits:** `type(scope): subject` format
- **Atomic commits:** One logical change per commit
- **No AI co-authorship:** Never include AI attribution in commits

## Beads (Global Issue Tracker)

Jacob uses a global beads database for lightweight issue tracking across all projects. The `bd` command is pre-configured via environment variables.

**Location:** `~/.beads/global.db` (set via `BD_DB` env var)

**When user says "work on beads" or "let's do some beads":**

1. **Auto-scope to current repo** — If in a git repo, always filter by `--label <repo-name>`
2. **Find ready work** — Use `bd ready --label <repo-name>` to find unblocked issues
3. **Present options** — Show ready issues sorted by priority

**Labeling convention:**

- When working in a git repo, use the repo name as the label: `--label <repo-name>`
- The label should match the repo directory name (e.g., `kin-analytics-dbt`, `kin-dbx-platform`)
- Ideas captured in think-tank get `--label think-tank` (repo-independent ideas)

**When to use beads vs JIRA:**

- **Beads:** Personal tracking, ideas, quick tasks, work-in-progress notes
- **JIRA:** Team-visible work, sprint planning, formal tickets

## Jacob's JIRA Defaults (MANDATORY)

YOU MUST use these defaults for ALL JIRA operations. These are not suggestions.

### Your Team and Project

**Your Team:** PAACS Data
**Team UUID:** `cbee4e32-b2eb-4ae9-a8d7-598c015fbf75` (customfield_10001)
**Default Project:** CORE

**Default behavior when creating tickets:**

→ Team = NO TEAM (null/unset) unless user specifies
→ Project = CORE (automatic)

**When user says "my team" or "add to my team":**

→ Team = PAACS Data (UUID: `cbee4e32-b2eb-4ae9-a8d7-598c015fbf75`)

**When user says "Platform team" or "create for X team":**

→ Team = X (find team UUID via JQL search)

**When user says "DPLAT ticket" or "create a PROJ ticket":**

→ Project = PROJ (explicit override)

**No exceptions:**

- Default team = NO TEAM (you work across teams)
- "my team" = PAACS Data, always
- No project specified = CORE, always
- Don't ask "which team?" or "which project?" unless user gives conflicting signals

### Your Sprint

**Sprint Prefix:** PAACS Sprint (e.g., "PAACS Sprint 79")

**Default behavior:** New tickets have NO sprint assigned (sprint field = null)

**When user says "add this to my sprint":**

1. **Find your current active sprint** (use JQL with your sprint prefix):

   ```python
   atlassian_api(
       service="jira",
       method="POST",
       endpoint="/rest/api/3/search/jql",
       data='{"jql": "project = CORE AND sprint in openSprints() AND sprint ~ \\"PAACS Sprint\\" ORDER BY created DESC", "fields": ["key", "customfield_10020"], "maxResults": 1}',
       jq_filter=".issues[0].fields.customfield_10020[] | {id, name, state}",
   )
   ```

   Extract sprint ID from result (e.g., 8277 for "PAACS Sprint 79").

2. **Add ticket to sprint** using customfield_10020:

   ```python
   atlassian_api(
       service="jira",
       method="PUT",
       endpoint="/rest/api/3/issue/CORE-123",
       data='{"fields": {"customfield_10020": [8277]}}',
   )
   ```

**Common rationalizations that mean you're about to fail:**

- "I'll ask which sprint" → WRONG. User said "my sprint" = PAACS Sprint XX (current active sprint)
- "I'll assign to current sprint automatically" → WRONG. Default is NO sprint unless user says so
- "Sprint management is too complex" → WRONG. Follow the 2-step process above

**Implementation details** (field structure, API mechanics) are documented in `atlassian-toolkit:using-atlassian-api` skill under `api/jira/create-issue.md` and `api/jira/update-issue.md`.

**No exceptions.** "My team" = PAACS Data. "My sprint" = PAACS Sprint (current active). "Create a ticket" = CORE project. Period.

### Starting Work on a Ticket

**When user says "start working on [TICKET]" or "pick up [TICKET]":**

Perform ALL of these steps automatically:

1. **Assign to Jacob** — Set assignee to Jacob Hurlburt
2. **Add to team** — Set team to PAACS Data (UUID: `cbee4e32-b2eb-4ae9-a8d7-598c015fbf75`)
3. **Check story points** — If `customfield_10060` (Story Points) is null/unset, ask "How many points for this ticket?"
4. **Add to current sprint** — Find active PAACS Sprint and add the ticket (see "Your Sprint" section above)
5. **Transition to In Progress** — Move ticket to "In Progress" status

**What NOT to do:**

- Do NOT close/resolve the ticket unless user explicitly says "close this ticket" or "mark as done"
- Do NOT ask permission for each step — just do them all

**Common rationalizations that mean you're about to fail:**

- "Let me confirm before assigning" → WRONG. "Start working on" = assign to Jacob, always
- "Should I add this to your sprint?" → WRONG. "Start working on" = add to current sprint, always
- "I'll just mark it in progress" → WRONG. Do ALL five steps, not just one

Commit message:

docs: add beads closure rule (commit before close)

settings/claude/base.md, after:

# Claude Core Preferences for Jacob Hurlburt

## Quick Start

You are interacting with Jacob Hurlburt, Staff Data Engineer at Kin Insurance. This file contains core preferences shared across all Claude interfaces.

## Modern CLI Tools (Enforced by PreToolUse Hook)

YOU MUST use modern CLI tools for these operations. Using legacy tools will cause your commands to be blocked.

### Text and Code Search

**FORBIDDEN:** `grep`, `egrep`, `fgrep` - NEVER use these commands

**REQUIRED:**

- **Text search:** `rg "pattern" path/` (ripgrep via Bash tool)
- **Code structure:** `ast-grep --pattern 'structural pattern'` (via Bash tool)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Finding text in files
rg "TODO" src/
rg -i "error" logs/  # case insensitive
rg "class.*Test" --type py  # with file type filter

# Finding code structures
ast-grep --pattern 'class $NAME { $$$ }'  # find class definitions
ast-grep --pattern 'def $FUNC($$$):' --lang python  # find functions
ast-grep --pattern 'import { $$$ } from "$MOD"'  # find imports
```

### File Finding

**FORBIDDEN:** `find` command - NEVER use this command

**REQUIRED:** `fd` (via Bash tool)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Find by name
fd filename
fd "test.*\.py$"  # regex pattern

# Find by extension
fd -e py
fd -e js -e ts  # multiple extensions

# Find in specific directory
fd pattern directory/

# List all files in directory
fd . directory/
```

### Text Processing

**FORBIDDEN:** `sed`, `awk` for text processing

**REQUIRED:**

- **JSON:** `jq` (via Bash tool)
- **YAML/XML:** `yq` (via Bash tool)
- **Text filtering:** `rg` (via Bash tool)

## Pre-commit Hooks (Enforced by Git Workflow)

YOU MUST NEVER bypass pre-commit hooks. No exceptions.

**Forbidden commands - YOU MUST NOT use:**

- `git commit --no-verify`
- `git commit -n`
- `SKIP=<hook> git commit`
- `pre-commit uninstall`
- Any flag, environment variable, or workaround that skips hooks

**When hooks fail:**

1. Read the error output
2. Fix the underlying issue
3. Stage the fixes and any changes the linters/formatters made
4. Commit again (hooks will re-run automatically)

## Python Tooling (Project-Aware)

YOU MUST use the project's package manager for Python tools. Running global `pytest`, `mypy`, or `ruff` in a managed project = broken imports, missing dependencies, wrong versions. Every time.

**Detection signals:**

- `uv.lock` or `[tool.uv]` in pyproject.toml → use `uv run`
- `pixi.toml` or `pixi.lock` → use `pixi run`

**FORBIDDEN in uv/pixi projects:**

- `pytest` (global)
- `mypy` (global)
- `ruff` (global)
- Any Python tool invoked without the project's runner

**REQUIRED:**

```bash
# uv projects
uv run pytest tests/
uv run mypy src/
uv run ruff check .

# pixi projects
pixi run pytest tests/
pixi run mypy src/
pixi run ruff check .
```

**No exceptions.** "It worked with global pytest" means you got lucky—the environment matched by accident. Use the project's tooling.

### Temporary Dependencies (Ultra-Fast Ad-Hoc Usage)

When you need a library for one-off scripts, quick experiments, or CLI tools (even outside any project), use ephemeral dependencies. **This is VASTLY faster and cleaner than pip install.**

**Why this matters:**

- No polluting any environment
- No manual cleanup needed
- Instant isolated execution
- No "did I install this globally?" confusion

**REQUIRED:**

```bash
# For Python packages (PyPI) - use uv (default choice)
uv run --with requests python script.py
uv run --with pandas --with matplotlib analysis.py
uv run --with ruff ruff check .  # one-off tool usage

# For conda packages or non-Python dependencies - use pixi
pixi exec -s gcc python script.py  # need a C compiler
pixi exec -s gdal python geo_script.py  # conda-only package
pixi exec -s jupyterlab jupyter lab  # quick Jupyter session
```

**Common use cases:**

- Quick data analysis with pandas/polars → `uv run --with`
- One-off API calls with requests/httpx → `uv run --with`
- Trying a formatter/linter → `uv run --with`
- Need conda-only packages (GDAL, scientific libs) → `pixi exec -s`
- Need non-Python tools (compilers, system tools) → `pixi exec -s`

**Never use `pip install` for these.** Both `uv` and `pixi` are global CLI tools that handle downloading, caching, isolation, and cleanup automatically. It's literally designed for this exact scenario.

## Databricks Access

We have direct access to Databricks data. Asking Jacob for schemas when we can query them ourselves wastes both our time. Guessing at table structures when we can explore them directly leads to broken queries.

### CLI Operations (All Workspaces)

The Databricks CLI works on any workspace via profiles:

```bash
databricks workspace list /Users --profile PROD
databricks clusters list --profile DEV
databricks jobs list --profile SANDBOX
databricks catalogs list --profile ADHOC-ANALYSIS
databricks jobs submit --json '...' --profile DEV
```

Upload notebooks, trigger jobs, check run status. Auth is handled automatically.

### Databricks MCP Server (Preferred)

Use the `databricks-dbsql` MCP tools for SQL queries. This is the default choice for data exploration.

### Databricks Connect (Rare - When SQL Truly Won't Work)

Use databricks-connect only for operations that **cannot** be expressed in SQL:

- Custom Python UDFs
- MLlib / machine learning pipelines
- Iterative algorithms requiring programmatic logic
- Integration with Python libraries (pandas UDFs, numpy)

**If you can write it as a SQL query, use the MCP server instead.**

**Boundaries:**

- **DEV workspace only** — Queries against PROD, SANDBOX, ADHOC-ANALYSIS will fail
- **Read-only** — Write operations are blocked

**Invocation:**

Write your script to `/tmp/spark_query.py` first, then run:

```bash
DATABRICKS_HOST="https://dbc-2ded3f86-d900.cloud.databricks.com" \
DATABRICKS_TOKEN=$(databricks auth token --profile DEV | jq -r '.access_token') \
uvx --from 'databricks-connect==17.2.*' python /tmp/spark_query.py
```

Do NOT add `--with pyspark`—databricks-connect bundles its own pyspark-connect and they conflict.

**Performance:** Exploration without `.limit()` or aggregations = slow transfers. We're exploring, not exporting.

**Version:** 17.2.x required—later versions don't support serverless yet.

## Git Workflow

- **Conventional commits:** `type(scope): subject` format
- **Atomic commits:** One logical change per commit
- **No AI co-authorship:** Never include AI attribution in commits

## Beads (Global Issue Tracker)

Jacob uses a global beads database for lightweight issue tracking across all projects. The `bd` command is pre-configured via environment variables.

**Location:** `~/.beads/global.db` (set via `BD_DB` env var)

**When user says "work on beads" or "let's do some beads":**

1. **Auto-scope to current repo** — If in a git repo, always filter by `--label <repo-name>`
2. **Find ready work** — Use `bd ready --label <repo-name>` to find unblocked issues
3. **Present options** — Show ready issues sorted by priority

**Labeling convention:**

- When working in a git repo, use the repo name as the label: `--label <repo-name>`
- The label should match the repo directory name (e.g., `kin-analytics-dbt`, `kin-dbx-platform`)
- Ideas captured in think-tank get `--label think-tank` (repo-independent ideas)

**When to use beads vs JIRA:**

- **Beads:** Personal tracking, ideas, quick tasks, work-in-progress notes
- **JIRA:** Team-visible work, sprint planning, formal tickets

**Closing beads:** Only close a bead after the work is actually committed. "I wrote the code" is not done—`git status` showing a clean working tree after commit is done.

## Jacob's JIRA Defaults (MANDATORY)

YOU MUST use these defaults for ALL JIRA operations. These are not suggestions.

### Your Team and Project

**Your Team:** PAACS Data
**Team UUID:** `cbee4e32-b2eb-4ae9-a8d7-598c015fbf75` (customfield_10001)
**Default Project:** CORE

**Default behavior when creating tickets:**

→ Team = NO TEAM (null/unset) unless user specifies
→ Project = CORE (automatic)

**When user says "my team" or "add to my team":**

→ Team = PAACS Data (UUID: `cbee4e32-b2eb-4ae9-a8d7-598c015fbf75`)

**When user says "Platform team" or "create for X team":**

→ Team = X (find team UUID via JQL search)

**When user says "DPLAT ticket" or "create a PROJ ticket":**

→ Project = PROJ (explicit override)

**No exceptions:**

- Default team = NO TEAM (you work across teams)
- "my team" = PAACS Data, always
- No project specified = CORE, always
- Don't ask "which team?" or "which project?" unless user gives conflicting signals

### Your Sprint

**Sprint Prefix:** PAACS Sprint (e.g., "PAACS Sprint 79")

**Default behavior:** New tickets have NO sprint assigned (sprint field = null)

**When user says "add this to my sprint":**

1. **Find your current active sprint** (use JQL with your sprint prefix):

   ```python
   atlassian_api(
       service="jira",
       method="POST",
       endpoint="/rest/api/3/search/jql",
       data='{"jql": "project = CORE AND sprint in openSprints() AND sprint ~ \\"PAACS Sprint\\" ORDER BY created DESC", "fields": ["key", "customfield_10020"], "maxResults": 1}',
       jq_filter=".issues[0].fields.customfield_10020[] | {id, name, state}",
   )
   ```

   Extract sprint ID from result (e.g., 8277 for "PAACS Sprint 79").

2. **Add ticket to sprint** using customfield_10020:

   ```python
   atlassian_api(
       service="jira",
       method="PUT",
       endpoint="/rest/api/3/issue/CORE-123",
       data='{"fields": {"customfield_10020": [8277]}}',
   )
   ```

**Common rationalizations that mean you're about to fail:**

- "I'll ask which sprint" → WRONG. User said "my sprint" = PAACS Sprint XX (current active sprint)
- "I'll assign to current sprint automatically" → WRONG. Default is NO sprint unless user says so
- "Sprint management is too complex" → WRONG. Follow the 2-step process above

**Implementation details** (field structure, API mechanics) are documented in `atlassian-toolkit:using-atlassian-api` skill under `api/jira/create-issue.md` and `api/jira/update-issue.md`.

**No exceptions.** "My team" = PAACS Data. "My sprint" = PAACS Sprint (current active). "Create a ticket" = CORE project. Period.

### Starting Work on a Ticket

**When user says "start working on [TICKET]" or "pick up [TICKET]":**

Perform ALL of these steps automatically:

1. **Assign to Jacob** — Set assignee to Jacob Hurlburt
2. **Add to team** — Set team to PAACS Data (UUID: `cbee4e32-b2eb-4ae9-a8d7-598c015fbf75`)
3. **Check story points** — If `customfield_10060` (Story Points) is null/unset, ask "How many points for this ticket?"
4. **Add to current sprint** — Find active PAACS Sprint and add the ticket (see "Your Sprint" section above)
5. **Transition to In Progress** — Move ticket to "In Progress" status

**What NOT to do:**

- Do NOT close/resolve the ticket unless user explicitly says "close this ticket" or "mark as done"
- Do NOT ask permission for each step — just do them all

**Common rationalizations that mean you're about to fail:**

- "Let me confirm before assigning" → WRONG. "Start working on" = assign to Jacob, always
- "Should I add this to your sprint?" → WRONG. "Start working on" = add to current sprint, always
- "I'll just mark it in progress" → WRONG. Do ALL five steps, not just one
